there's one thing I can tell you this
video is not any way going to replace
the service already provided to you by
happy cow or other vegan restaurant
review websites so this is the funny
thing about the Internet certain types
of information become meaningless to
share or rotate because I already know
in weight less time it takes to watch
this video you can click on somebody
else's website and get an overview of
photographs the list of menu items
normally from the restaurants own
website you can get you know the list of
what's in their menu the prices and all
those kinds of details so there's no
point in us presenting that to you I
also think there's no point in us just
going through this list and giving a
thumbs up thumbs down or 1 to 10 rating
for each these restaurants but I do
think there's a point in some kind of
broader and deeper reflections and what
we've learned in several months of I
don't know exhausting and yet
self-indulgent you know travel as we
went from northern Thailand to Detroit
then from Detroit to Vancouver then from
Vancouver to Seattle with Nanaimo in
between we've been eating at a lot of
vegan restaurants in all these places
and we've also been meeting with and
talking to vegan chefs partly for
reasons that are outside of this this
video but vegan chefs and chefs and
cooking instructors in a couple
different universities people living and
working in the food sector and getting
their perspectives on what's going on in
veganism from that more commercial food
services side okay so the list of
restaurants we're gonna cover in this
video number one green space number two
detroit vegan soul on the cafe tribe
kitchen chive cake that's what she's
there for Savea and then in the season
all of those are in detroit michigan USA
and i think we have a legitimate claim
to reviewing every single vegan
restaurant in detroit USA in this video
just in covering those six locations and
then we have two other restaurants that
are in Ann Arbor next door one is just
called the lunchroom and one a new one
is called veg cafe that may or may not
be every single option and in our brain
Harper it's not that big a city
but our former video started with a
clarification we did a video where
viewing almost every restaurant in
Chiang Mai Thailand but this one I think
we really are legitimately covering just
about every single restaurant in Detroit
okay Melissa you're on deck take it away
what what do you want to say under this
heading well I know you didn't want to
do just the thumbs-up or thumbs-down but
the restaurant that I was most impressed
with and that if you're in Detroit for a
short period of time and you want to
check out just one vegan restaurant or
you know devote your time to see anyone
would be Detroit being a soul
I felt like their staff was was pretty
great the the food was excellent and the
location not so great to get to in
Detroit nothing has a good location
every location of choice yeah
joking of laughing but I'm not joking
you know right next to it is actually a
pretty nice neighborhood of Detroit
which is unlike the rest of us right
what Detroit vegan soul one of the
things I remember with the location is
that right across the street there's a
meat-based salt restaurant that's empty
and looks like it's going on a business
there's another one just down the way
that already went out of business so
that may be gone by the time you get
there yeah but the vitality of the one
vegan restaurant is actually a real
contrast to one of the restaurants that
that's surrounded on the same block
there was a bookstore that was happy
okay look I was self-critical about this
kind of thing do we eat there twice or
three times twice a night we went there
twice okay once we went for brunch well
let me just say as a reviewer some of
these restaurants who went you twice and
then we really change their opinions
you know the second time we went there
um Detroit vegan so we do have a really
positive freshman we literally bought
the t-shirt so we both own a t-shirt for
this restaurant
Detroit vegan soul but you know they
actually did a lot wrong they did screw
up a bunch of things that order and
they're a bunch of dishes that didn't
work and I think well
let me just say I think you can be over
the threshold where you feel positively
about something and then you're ignoring
all the negative information about it
that can happen and the opposite can
happen to where you have a negative
impression of something then it doesn't
matter how much they get right you know
what I mean and you're disregarding some
bad information what do you say well I
know you've hated the okra soup yeah
right so you told you told the waiter as
much and you weren't charged yeah yeah
they took at the end they allegedly took
it off the bill right right right
um I thought that was I thought there
was something wrong with that soup I
know where it was and it wasn't merely
that I thought this was not to my taste
I thought it was the net of others yeah
I guess okay
yeah the downsides which is pretty
unprofessional that vegan restaurants
get away with that I think other
restaurants wouldn't is that yeah you
know when you would go to order
something they would say oh we're out of
this for that you know we were there on
a Saturday at like 2:00 p.m. yes this is
like you need to have everything on the
menu if you're offering it on the menu
you need to have it stuff like I mean it
was like it was like I wanted to order
the the breakfast sandwich and they
didn't have the veggie sausage oh we
don't have veggie sausage and then my
mom wanted to order something else yeah
that's right
oh we're out of that so what so what's
your second choice and what's your third
choice that's what we do something so
it's funny it's coming up under this
headache because this is maybe the most
positive review like we were both very
positive about Detroit big and so we
both bought the t-shirt etc yeah but one
of the things I kept saying to you as we
went from restaurant to restaurant in
Detroit was you know like none of these
places live up to the standards you take
for granted with big mainstream brands
like the Olive Garden
or a roll Red Lobster well I don't know
subway is saying them are pretty low you
know I mean like is this vegan
restaurant up to the level so but if you
think about the mid-range American chain
restaurants I don't even know sir I'm
not American out of live in the states I
don't I don't know this kind of stuff
and I only me I've been vegan for a
million years or forgotten but you know
I think it is interesting just what you
said is very very true
vegan restaurants seem to get away with
a lot of really unprofessional stuff and
they charge more okay charge more than
surcharge charge more than Albuquerque
and what their and what they're
delivering in terms of even the place
you said and a lot of things with
experience it's not at the level of an
Olive Garden or some other you know
mainstream brand like that now whether
or not it's at the level of a Chipotle
or a subway I think is is separately
kind of debatable but yeah I mean I
think we're kind of doing this video it
really like the right time because we
did these restaurant reviews or served
went to these restaurants and we're
really reviewing them and pay attention
um and taking photographs and looking at
the menu when we're applying for college
to go into a college to go into food
services ourselves we're specifically
interested in baking but you know this
is both the ugliness and the beauty of
capitalism what is the value of a bottle
of champagne it's whatever people say it
is right a bottle of champagne can be
worth a hundred dollars in a bottle
champagne can worth a thousand dollars
and bottles you mean can be worth ten
dollars you know and there may not
necessarily be a standard or reference
in terms of quality or how much you
enjoy it or anything else to separate
these things but yes sadly on the issue
of price alone a lot of these vegan
restaurants have a very fundamental lack
of humility about what they're selling
what's worth so let's let's jump ahead
we can come back to praising Detroit
vegan soul maybe we should wrap up by
doing that saying at the end what is to
do it right I mean that's where the end
the video come back to share a few and
so on green space was a huge
disappointment and among the things just
job ed we ordered I forget what it costs
for was eight dollars or something we
ordered you know a potato dish and it
was potatoes on a dish that's all it was
you know if your grandma served its you
you wouldn't complain but it was just
not restaurant food it was not up to the
standard of an Olive Garden or a
Chipotle or a-- or a mcdonald's even you
know it was not at the standard of
adequacy level of excellence and it was
a lot of money i mean that date that
meal and total cost a lot but i got a
side of one type of vegetable and of end
of potatoes and it was just laughable
everything about it the appearance the
presentation we had we even had a French
I'm sorry french onion soup they're
terrible
worse than amateurish and you gotta ask
yourself again if my cousin made this
for me I wouldn't even lie to my
cousin's face and be like yeah that's a
good French onion soup I would say you
know look Larry my cousin Larry let's
say have you really read about what
French onion soup is have you thought
about how it's supposed to taste this
doesn't taste like French onion soup you
know something you're doing wrong I
might try to talk about it with him in a
constructive way but all that stuff was
not not up to standard and the prices of
the prices are unforgivable
so yeah look I mean it's the best of
times and the worst of times for
veganism in 2018 and keeping it all the
way real we just saw some counter
examples we have seen some very modestly
priced vegan places wouldn't you say
veggie grill the chain veggie grow as a
contrast no okay that's for a different
occasion here no that's that's really
over smear cuz look I was just gonna ask
the question I mean alright sorry we're
jumping around but I think this is the
more philosophical way to talk about
this instead of just giving you a score
at a 10 for each restaurant but like we
look at baked goods as vegans and it's
like well this place is selling a vegan
doughnut for three dollars and fifty
cents Tim Hortons is selling a normal
lawn vegan doughnut for 99 cents what
explains the gap you like this is a big
gap and that's not the worst offender we
just had a vegan cake cake about smaller
than a doughnut for 12 US dollars we've
seen others for what we saw ice cream
and you know wait but I mean this is a
what is a bottle of champagne worth you
know we could a cake can be worth $15 at
this size we saw a non-vegan example of
that it can be $2.99 and guys the
ingredients here as a vegan the there is
no way the cake should be more expensive
you've eliminated eggs and dairy it's
not like you replace them with saffron
so it's a funny you know it's not in the
ingredients cost it's not in the labor
cost so it's the best of times the worst
times for veganism I guess it
fundamentally is a positive thing that
vegan food businesses can get away with
this and get away with charging an arm
and a leg for something or fly something
positive but how
asthma's perceived or even what
meat-eaters are going to pay for ate for
a vegan doughnut or a vegan meal but at
the end of the day looks re green space
in in Detroit I give you a zero out of
ten I give you zero you know and again
the French onion soup is part of it
everything else but I don't know how any
restaurants are I don't know any
professional in the industry or even uh
even the waiter can look at that plate
of potatoes and think yeah this is where
I'm proud to serve that I think I mean
you know if this was a dollar
ninety-nine donor was actually there
that day right you walked by our table
you didn't know that he was the owner
but you know he was walking up to people
at the tables and you know so he was
there supervising he was there working
and watching what was being served you
know this is what he endorses and it's
you know green space I was really
excited about it opened up after I went
vegan and it was known it was supposed
to be like a 100 percent heart-healthy
place because it was opened by dr. Joel
Khan in this short mileages he's
definitely a local celebrity I don't
know if he's a coast-to-coast nationwide
celebrity yeah he's published some books
he's pieced to some extent famous yes
sure yeah but you know going this time
you know I did go when it first opened
and I was brilliant I was fairly
impressed yeah um it's but it was
overpriced from the get from the get-go
you know it was overpriced but I thought
it was because it was you know
superfoods like organic all local so I
kind of justified the price and I didn't
do that much but this time the you know
what we ordered was not heart-healthy
yeah and the French onion soup wasn't
you know it wasn't healthy wasn't raw
you know like you sure laughs it was
just I was just in water yeah yeah black
and tempeh was pretty good like yeah I
mean I guess I guess it is a good sign
for veganism as a movement a place like
that that from my perspective is a
failure like in terms of cuisine
the only good thing I could say about
that place be if you want a place to get
drunk you know they're serving alcohol
I'm sorry I don't drink alcohol at all
yeah there were people using it as a bar
in a social space that would be the only
thing agreement it's okay what's a place
rather than somewhere else to get drunk
or to socialize with people you already
know you're going to make any new
friends that are gone knows you could
choose that but in terms of cuisine the
place is is to me obviously a failure
and even obviously a disaster like they
need to call in a chef to do an
evaluation and consultation and figure
out how to make but they're not family
economically not only are they
successful they're opening new branches
they were expanding right yeah they were
spending at least one new location and
you know you could see there were they
were busy at all hours and so on so you
know again that's interesting as a vegan
obviously I'm happy to see other vegans
succeed yeah this is parallel though to
my kind of anxiety about a lot of the
new fecund products we saw in the
grocery store obviously that could be
another video what have you
Detroit had so many vegan products on
display in the case you know what the
gross worth vegan on the label and so ok
sometimes they said plant-based but very
often marketed as vegan yeah but oh my
god I mean a lot of it is awful a lot of
it and it's not just like you taste it
like oh this isn't to my taste or I'd
like this if it were salty or something
a lot of it is like I taste it and I
said you I can't believe the investors
ever sat there an investor meeting and
said yeah we're gonna put a million
dollars it just seems to me mine blowing
inedibly awful and of course overpriced
expensive as hell so you know shadow to
cashew yogurt share it's a kite hill
almond for four yeah
yes very expensive and it's a false
luxury I mean you know you're expecting
something great for that price right we
also see this in a funny comparative
perspective I was just saying this to
one
professor Satine we talk to you we've
been flying back and forth to Asia we've
been flying back and forth to Europe so
we see the stuff going on in America in
a comparative light and I mean some of
the things on the American scene are
good or positive I mean you know um a
lot of the heat and action in vegan
restaurant the right being in restaurant
business right now
I'd say is he in soul food or comfort
food yeah whatever you want to call it
that's that's really an American thing
that's not what's going on in Europe so
you know if you want an okay vegan
hamburger and french fries there's a lot
of that going on that's that's more
positive than it is negative I mean
that's probably with a lot of these
restaurants who haven't been there
before that's maybe the only thing you
can get that's reliably not gonna be
awful right and some of it's based on
the beyond burger or other recognized
brands of a fake meat yeah that's the
difference from your but on the other
hand in Europe some things are being
done I think technically correctly yeah
you know like like soy yogurt and you
just cannot be had in America at any
price yeah well I will just say I the
Whole Foods in the Detroit area we went
to heads had like a jelly area in their
deli case they had quite a few vegan
options that were really good but we
just went to the Whole Foods in Seattle
and we did not see as many options yeah
I was really surprised expected Seattle
to be like more of a vegan Haven Detroit
but apparently not it's a little bit
weird but Detroit has appeared in a
number of articles there was one article
that was called the ten best cities to
live in as a vegan yeah and Detroit was
in that list but there are other
articles that weren't a top ten list
they're just talking about the the
cities who are veganism is really
happening and again this one restaurant
Detroit begins Sol as part of the height
for that so his green space but we did
see that in the supermarkets of
different went to many different
supermarkets and we could see a lot of
yes
vegan action so another big thing oh
sorry I know you got things I got thing
to say to you can you can jump in after
this but take an iteration we take of it
I think it's interesting when you look
at the generational change between the
vegan restaurants like I mean something
like green space
detroit vegan soul those are really the
new generation then the now 2018
generation the current approach to to
being vegan restaurant terms we see this
everywhere we go you see it also in the
vegan bakeries like you know you go to a
place that was started in the 1980s they
have a different idea about
vegetarianism or veganism differently
about the diet of health and what the
products are again how they're presented
there are really different assumptions
assumptions built into the business that
are evident on the plate and even
literally like they're evident in the
arrangement to the table yes that'll
sell physically but a 1980s vegan cafe
that's downstairs from a yoga studio
that's a real example is very different
from a place that started up in 2015
hippie to hipster
right yes yeah that is that is true well
another thing is are you making food for
hipsters are you making it for the whole
family or any this place of those places
where parents would take their kids
that's kind of yeah gap in the market
yeah yeah so in Detroit area I think
it's probably in season yep was started
late seventies ER so I think they hold
the record as the oldest continuous
vegetarian restaurant so in season was
my favorite they're mostly vegan but
they have a few vegetarian things which
again reflects that generation I mean
back then there was a time when the word
vegan wasn't used we just talked about
vegetarian and strictly vegetarian right
right so I like in season because of the
ho meanness of it there's soundproofing
on the ceiling so it's it's we're able
to have a conversation you know like we
took my parents when we first met
eyes'll and it was really when they
first time with me she she told me for a
while but when I went through their
passion you have you know free refills
on coffee and you know like pretty
pretty affordable don't get in season
it's just generally I like the staff too
and yeah you always won't get too much
of that coming around me like hey
very much of the sure accurate waiter
and customer but so yeah in season and
also own cafe the road to their like
old-school style restaurants that are
work originally vegetarian and they are
still vegetarian but offer mostly vegan
on the majority of what they got in the
menu is now is now vegan um so I have
very different these two places in
season and own cafe I was much more
positive but the food at home cafe maybe
I'm wrong with just my honest feeling
with the end of season I liked a lot of
things but I liked its place to have
coffee linked to this place that desert
LHS place type of conversation you said
the desserts basically very positive
both there and you know I like I mean it
is it is this kind of out of date
ambiance but that's cool it's it's a
nice place to hang however I felt the
food was painfully unsophisticated right
yeah and like to me again I'm not as
much of a snob as you might think from
this comment but I just said green space
you buy the French onion soup it does
not taste like French onion soup
alright there's there is a there is a
textbook definition of what that dish is
supposed to taste like right um you know
at sorry in season they serve a
minestrone soup it wasn't horrible but
he was not a minestrone soup you know it
was just a completely different it was
just whatever vegetable soup they
thought it was a miscellaneous you can
sleep with a bunch of peas and carrots
in it you know what I mean yes so yeah
it was funny to see how my perception
was different after having been around
the world
you know seeing like the employees in
Chiang Mai and Pattaya Jonty an area in
France in China - that's right so
Beijing's a country I was thinking of
the one vegan restaurant in Doha but
anyway yeah who you also that's very
well so the vegan restaurant tour you
know I was a little I was a little like
well I don't know
you know what minestrone is not an
English word
that's a foreign word you know I think
it is true anybody can do cake and
coffee which is great and we need more
or vegan places competing with Starbucks
and doing cake and coffee but you are
really delivering on some of those other
things like minestrone soup is actually
not that easy yeah and to do it day
after day you know what a good level of
quality because doesn't see it so much
but it is good to think about these
things as far as I don't think will be
restaurant owners but just seeing about
you can seem like your is the future of
the places that were built in the 70s
like how are they going to keep going
with the new hips that are opening all
right I mean I think I think there were
a few things are one can you live up to
the expectation in 2018 in terms of
sophistication of food like what is
minestrone soup or what is anything that
you know what have you another question
is can you keep up with the expectations
terms of the healthiness of food because
you and I both we do pretty much make an
exception for any food if it's really
healthy but the vast majority of what
we've been eating in these restaurants
and we both regret it - yeah it's not
health it's vegan food but it's not L
food like if what we were eating really
consisted of salad and broccoli and I
don't know like use or something you
know I would feel much more plausible
it's easy for me to give a positive you
to some of the Mexican places you know
Mexican restaurant because sometimes
that is what you get you're getting a
bunch of vegetables and beans and
what-have-you um so can you really
deliver on or can you meet a high enough
standard for really legit healthy food
but not many are and then you know
finally beyond that when it's not health
food are you making something that's you
know a so-called peak experience or
fabulous like you know okay ultimately
you have to compete with the grocery
store here in America here in United
States you got Trader Joe's you can get
prepared vegan desserts at Trader Joe's
are you presenting food that that
competes with that yeah yeah yeah I know
we're not doing you know like thumbs up
thumbs down but yeah what was the winner
at in season you know I'm not getting
too much of specifics was the stir-fry
that just rules with rice it's you know
what mystic ate it it was simplicity and
genuinely healthy yeah and then
both of us were just satisfied much more
easily because of that because it's
really healthy and you know for them
they're not they're not attempting to do
something that don't really know how to
do or they can't pull off or not the
kitchen so likewise own cafe which I
won't see too much about what won my
heart there was just straight-up brussel
sprouts
yeah you know green vegetables on a
plate with a sauce and was like damn
this is a of course it's actually
healthy and actually I wish I could have
that again tonight you know and I mean I
thought they just did a really good
plate of Brussels sprouts maybe
everything else was not so great
disappointment with macaroni and cheese
and how is it possible to make vegan
good like I see people lying vegan mac
and cheese on like Facebook groups and
it's like right no you know this is not
that good yeah like the reviews for the
mac and cheese at home cafe oh you gotta
try it I got it I was just you know
really disappointed right everywhere
that I've tried it you know like I got
vegan mac and cheese is greasy yellow
pasta that's not gonna be our Forte like
yeah I know what you're I don't you over
there but something else that is easy
and doesn't rely on cheat so much you
know the two people sitting across the
table from my sweet stabled for yeah
they had vegan tacos yeah I mean there
are so many things that easily and I
thought I thought they were very good I
know if it's excellent but you know I
thought there were a lot of things all
home Cafe is a small kitchen so okay one
thing to mention here that struck me at
home cafe because home cafe is just kind
of marketed as a hippie place Detroit
vegan soul is explicitly linked to
african-american culture after my
experience it's owned by yeah we we
mentor yeah but you know um both of
those places about 50% of the staff were
black yeah we're african-american and
depending on when you were there maybe
50% of the customers were too and you
know obviously not going to be exactly
so Detroit is one of the few places in
the world where at least on the surface
it does seem like a really large
percentage of vegans
and even full-time professional vegans
in the food industry are black or
african-american so yeah I mean that's a
contrast I think you will not see that
going to vegan cafes in California or
many other places you know and also a
lot of vegans I've known them on the
internet too but you can read plenty of
blogs with that about the feeling of
being a minority within a minority as
being an African of her community
I mean anyway just being here in Seattle
like I think most of the restaurants
we've been to like the vegan places yes
I don't like people I don't think we've
seen a single that is true I think in
Seattle we haven't seen a single
african-american in a single vegan
restaurant and whether or not we did in
Vancouver is also debatable and we took
we took one african-american with us
look at Asia sorry Quest is Canadian but
he's he's black so we would with them
but no so that is a big contrast with
Detroit and maybe that's part of why the
Troy seems to have something special to
offer or something something unique and
interesting going on okay so some of
these others what would you say about
tribe kitchen because I think we've kind
of already established all the different
criteria we're thinking about here chef
kitchen is like terribly unhealthy like
that's there okay like there are no
really chili cheese fries okay right so
that's a given sandwiches like yeah and
it's not great I'm sorry it's like you
know it has to be worth the calories if
you're gone yeah do it and I was
disappointed with it I had it before I
felt like this time that I went you know
I went like two years before this and I
feel like the portions have gotten
smaller the quality of food had declined
so no you've seen that with a few places
too after they've been open for a while
they start to start to wind down but
it's not in Detroit you know it's a
check you serve the suburbs yeah greater
Detroit area whatever yeah every vegan
restaurant the groups were there anyway
you know
I think that's the fundamental thing
when what you're serving really is
health food we have lower standards and
when it's not well what what is this
about anyway I don't know when we went
to chaff kitchen again this is massively
successful line up out the door yeah
freezing cold freezing cold so people
waiting huddled and doorway and in the
sidewalk outside of the restaurant and
we were there early - it wasn't even
game time we first got there for that
was one was four o'clock in the
afternoon and you know places slammed
and they they were only busy rose as the
night went on and obviously a very small
minority other customers are actually
vegan so they're capturing something in
the zeitgeist there's something going on
there capturing in a bottle of some kind
of public interest um I wouldn't say the
food there was terrible but it's just
you can't justify it in terms of the
calories reading you can't justify it in
terms of the price you're paying yeah
and yeah I basically have nothing good
to say but it's I mean anyway it's funny
I mean you know some people talk about
you know the function of a restaurant
being a peak experience being part of
the gift economy which it was for us cuz
we took out your family
yeah members of your extended family to
check kitchenware it's about taking
someone at showing them a special old
time alright we're in this distance and
this did not this did not raise that
level this was not the same well this
was not as good as taking them to a to
an Olive Garden but just be one you know
where any of those big big chains like
that yeah that vegan places get away
with having tiny areas for dining yes
true not enough seating right yes that's
what it's about if that's what though if
that's we suppose is kind of the gift
economy and a peak experience and a
special night out if that's what you're
providing that's one thing then the
other hand I mean you can have vegan
places that are more like Starbucks or
more like McDonald's or more like Tim
Hortons where it's not a special place
it's just a place to get get fed and get
back to work yeah obviously I totally
appreciate that but not
there has to be they have to be priced
in a way that that's actually
competitive with right okay yeah so hmm
okay anyway I think chive kitchen I'm
not gonna say anything else bad about it
but that to me is an interesting example
of a place that doesn't kind of win
under : a it doesn't win under Conti
probably also a good place to get drunk
a lot of people were drinking alcohol
there that is true and the other thing
remembers they are massively successful
so we can sit here and say their food is
crap and it kind of is but people are
lining up obviously they're gonna keep
doing what they're doing and other new
businesses are gonna open and copy it
yeah so look I mean I don't know when do
we hit peak veganism
when does the bubble burst when my child
did it happened with the comic book
industry there was a time when people
were buying up comic books and the
prices kept going up and people thought
oh all these comic books are going to be
worth you know $100 you know the race is
gonna preview that people figure adult
comic come on this is a worth what
semester do start I don't know I mean at
some point you know we talked about this
a lot with baking how is it possible to
charge $6.99 for a little loaf of bread
how is it possible to charge you know
seven and eight dollars for a vegan
cupcake you know I don't know but at
some point people have to recognize just
like comic books ultimately the paper is
not worth that much um you know sugar
and wheat are just not worth that much
all right
Siva so you don't see them for a
relatively long time Siva is vegetarian
right it's vegetarian yeah and again
about half the half the menu is they'll
be you know yeah so we only went there
for we had soup I think yeah
oh and dessert right no and I had their
famous dish I had there a cauliflower
dish oh yes we had a few things right
thing right fried cauliflower with spicy
Asian sauce and yeah I think there were
okay yeah what we had this time yeah I
was impressed with them last summer I
had it I guess last April I think it was
before I moved to China yeah I don't
know I think a lot of these places
probably I mean I don't think this
really impacts your bottom line but look
ok I'm gonna do a comparison seva in
Detroit as opposed to JJ beam in
Vancouver so JJ beam is a very humble
coffee shop they're in competition with
you know Starbucks but just the fact
that they give you a side salad and make
a lot of it you know what I mean so some
of these places also like like you say
so we had the same experience with a
vegan pizza place we went to an all
vegan pizza place where it's like well
you're getting you this one item on a
dish you know could some effort be made
to make a make a meal out of it and no I
my overall impression with Sabo was was
negative they're famous vegan dish is
exactly which is much it's taking
cauliflower putting in a deep fryer
putting it on a plate and putting a
sauce on it
yep that's the whole thing there's
nothing else to it so you know I don't
know if there was a soup and a salad or
something else involved if it was part
of a meal and maybe I feel more positive
about it but yeah that's kind of a read
it's the same thing with the fake meat
attraction within veganism when we move
past this being a stunt like oh I can't
believe this isn't real duck meat I
can't believe this isn't real chicken I
can't believe this isn't real beef then
you know you start to look at well okay
yep but am I actually having a meal you
don't I mean is this is this just a
stunt or is there more to it you know I
felt I feel like it's overpriced for
what you get to that is true I would
give Siva the thumbs down but it does
not get the kind of reasoning negative
review for me that that green space does
tbh yeah all right so the other two are
in Ann Arbor right so this is a
different tone to Ann Arbor is just down
the street from Detroit they're like
sister cities at this point because the
university connection between them great
so the restaurants we went to lunch room
and these are at opposite extremes of
the vegan experience because lunch room
lunch room is high-end in terms of its
prices I mean you you get to sit on also
lined out the door it was lunch time on
us absolutely successful they are
absolutely at capacity and above
capacity
the seven days a week every meal they're
open for really disappointed and their
tiramisu it was way too sugary yes Tara
meter BC was garbage you were
disappointed with the mains to that you
had doesn't matter of fact I mean you
weren't weeping but you were just wanted
no I mean I remember your your reaction
at the time but mister that place is
insanely successful there kind of I just
feel they're kind of charging gourmet
prices for non gourmet food which is a
common thing and you're not you don't
really even get to sit in a proper
restaurant you know it is more like
sitting in a Starbucks you don't really
get waiter service or table service yeah
okay you know that's an approach but
again the prices there just to I but
that is that is you're paying as if that
were for my food whereas the contrast
veg cafe is this totally unpretentious
like fast food joint that I thought had
really sophisticated food yeah we had a
vegan chili feast a Philly cheesesteak
yeah vegan Philly cheesesteak sandwich
at veg cafe in Ann Arbor and you know I
really thought that was a very
sophisticated very well executed it's
one of the best vegan dishes I've had in
my life period I really thought it was
done very well not health food but
fabulous you know and it made me
obviously they do shallots and some
other stuff there that's that's how I
was yeah that's true this movie was just
so-so was just no but anyway but that
that's a really cheap you know
unpretentious kind of place and the
lunchroom I don't know I mean you know
it's a bit mysterious oh I have
complained you repeatedly about
so-called Mexican food places where
nobody involved is is Mexican yeah you
know I got into Mexican burrito right a
lot of this of the many thought was is
Mexican yeah some of its like Thai
dishes too you know yes right you're
taking a risk I mean you're taking a
risk do you really know Mexican food if
you're the restaurant turd you really
know Thai food are you really gonna do
this I mean again like you can ask is
this as good as
the Olive Garden but you know is this is
this really competitive with is this
comparable to what you'd get at a decent
tire on tour a decent Mexican rose
yeah for the corresponding you know
types of dishes and if not you know what
what are you doing here what are you
yeah anyway yeah I will just say they're
also massively successful watching they
open insanely they opened a restaurant
right down the street called Detroit
filling station which we don't go to and
then another location for that place
which is a little bit further out of
town so yeah they're doing very well we
don't have much competition as far as
vegan places games there was one place I
went to when I first want begin I guess
two and a half years ago now and we
walked by the location and it's now
totally closed and I think because it
was like a mostly raw food place where
it didn't last just how it goes right
and we look I don't know like I guess
the real question the real area of
market research to understand this is to
look at who are the meat eaters who eat
at vegan restaurants because they're
obviously the ones driving success you
know what are they wanting what are they
finding in these places and you know
okay look detroit vegan soul one said
let's end with it you know what is so
positive what does it detroit vegan soul
is getting right why don't you say from
your perspective cuz i I think I do have
a perspective on this yeah I think
people are proud to see a new hip
restaurant run by black people in the
middle of Detroit be successful I think
you know people are proud to see place
doing well like this yeah you say that
we walked by a restaurant tonight a meat
a meat based restaurant and it had
written on the front door we make people
feel good about their bad habits yeah I
think that's a bit of a hook for a lot
of this vegan soul food vegan comfort
food is we make you feel good about your
betters we're selling you something
that's probably objective yeah but it's
vegan
you know it's vegan and it's organic and
we're offering to kind of make you feel
good
a bunch of it well you know whatever
it's a vegan roast beef or it's you know
it's it's something like this you know
what where it's not health food within
an calm but because it's vegan you're
getting interest from from outside me
yeah we'll just say Detroit has gone
through a terrible economic I mean it's
been yeah it's been in dire straits for
years and years so you know recently
there's been resurgence of hope in about
the city of Detroit so I think this is
kind of adding to the hype that there's
something vegan for something new right
something that is claiming to be healthy
so it's part of a narrative about soul
food in african-american culture it's
part of a narrative about Detroit and
Detroit emerging from the ashes and
revival of a unique Detroit culture I
think it's also part of a narrative
about making people feel good about
their their bad habits you know which
again that's something I think many
vegan categories in cash you know like
oh hey don't eat a cupcake eat a vegan
cupcake no I mean like honestly how
healthy is okay it's true it doesn't
have eggs in it doesn't have dairy in it
there is a difference between on being
coke but still a lot of this stuff is is
really no but I think the other thing
lurking in the background here is could
I make this better at home or could I
make this just as well home yeah and a
lot of the places we've eaten I'm not
even thinking about Detroit sort of been
going to a lot of restaurants that we've
and well this was okay I've heard you
say that even like but you could
actually make the specific dish better
it helped me vegan pizza when you really
think about it pizza is the worst of
course you can make it better vegan
pizza or do you want to know lazier you
know if we think about the ingredients
like okay yeah you know red sauce you
know vegan cheese whatever you know
there's not that much to it I think you
know what makes Detroit vegan solo stand
out above all else there's a lot of food
there I cannot yep make it home and the
last time I went in the second time I
did order an actually healthy meal one
of their options is just to get three
different types of greens three
different types of grilled vegetables
basically and I did that as the bank
move
fabulous so I had something like yeah
yeah broccoli but something like
fiddleheads collard greens yeah stuff
like that you know so I had a whole
plate of a bitter green visuals which I
love for me that's a fabulous meal I
mean that alone again what was over a
certain threshold where I regarded the
whole restaurant really positively even
though they did actually do some things
wrong and screw some things up you know
but yeah even that even my my greens the
same poor thing or that's not something
I could or would you know make it home
and I mean I could make broccoli but you
know did you say the actual details of
yeah I would not be able to make a
second time or the first time because if
it was a breakfast sandwich with like
this veggie sausage I don't know how
they did it the second time something
with like coconut bacon and like chicken
pho chicken you know like I I don't know
and I'm not willing to put in the effort
yeah yeah so yeah I mean I think that's
the other thing working in the back
corner are you offering people whether
they're vegans or meteors whether or not
it's fabulous within us but something
really different from what they can what
thing you know and yeah what can I tell
you the future is not going to be vegan
restaurants that fail to live up to the
standards set by Olive Garden I just
gotta say I think you know in terms of
front of house service and in so many
fundamental things we've got to start
you know meeting those standards you
remember we went to one restaurant in
Thailand where they actually said if
anything isn't good enough you get a
refund you know say that's one attitude
that's interesting there's another
restaurant here in Seattle that says
anything on your plate that you don't
finish we charge you double for so if
you're deciding you didn't like it
you're guilty of wasting food and you're
you're punished for it there are a lot
of different kind of cultural responses
to this yeah but I think also you know I
mean I guess one attitude I bring to
this that's maybe a little bit alien to
a lot of other people in the game just
when I say look there's a way minestrone
soup it's supposed to taste this is not
Minister there's a way French I mean su
is supposed ate most of these vegan
foods and dishes
they're in this totally new territory
where neither the people making them nor
the audience have a preconceived set of
expectations well this is supposed to
yeah tastes like right so it's it's a
new enough dish or it's a new enough
category of dishes that you were
stumbling water just don't you don't
have those kinds of standards you need
to temper ensure a traditional dish
fruits Indonesia that's right sure sure
sure but a lot of right just going vegan
or so yeah they don't know what to
expect I mean these are easy problems so
everything everyone in cuisine has to do
this tempeh is a great ingredient now
how do you sell me a whole meal that
involves tempeh that really works you
know what I mean it can't be I think we
had this at a green space
this was just the white plate and again
talked about I could make it better at
home
it was just tempeh taken out of a
plastic packet cut and put on that white
plate Thanks you know this is not yeah
what's that bad again green space gets a
zero out of ten from me but yeah that's
uh you know that's a creative challenge
for the people restaurant and the
pricing and the costing and the the
total the total package of the
experience you're getting okay guys so
that is it that is a review of every
single restaurant in both vegan
restaurant in both Detroit and Ann Arbor
with what I hope are some useful
reflections on I don't know past present
and future of what's going on in bean
cuisine we definitely see again and
again and he said he would go to this
big gulf between vegan restaurants and
bakeries started in the 1980s in the
1990s in the 2000 just in the last
couple of years and we also see warning
signs for survive oh you know all right
here you know youyou see something
online and be like okay where is that
located already right right you know so
that's I mean in business school that's
the most importantly deficits people
when you're walking on the street you
think you're seeing both success and
failure in terms of the restaurants or
whatever businesses you're talking about
no you're only seeing success even the
places that look like failure if they're
still in bed
yes they're still there to be seen right
yeah you're not seeing all the ones that
closed down so no and that would be
interesting to know more about the the
broken hearts and the the businesses
that didn't make it whether in whether
in Detroit or elsewhere
yeah but sure be right now it seems you
the high-tide for the vegan diet and
it's dead list partly because the
mainstream media is people like Oprah
herself Oprah did a thing where her
whole office became vegan for a month or
something you know so mainstream TV like
Oprah Winfrey has has has pushed this
idea and in the same sense that look
when I first met my girlfriend she'd
never had Indian food you know I think
most people are aware if they never had
any food at some point in their life
they should try it and show some
interest in Indian cuisine vegan is
emerging as a category of cuisine like
Indian food in that sense the problem is
veganism is an ethical and political and
ecological movement and it's not a
cuisine it's not one you know I even
just contrasted you know green space
Detroit vegan soul these don't represent
us or we just recently that of course
there's Chinese vegan food and Indian
vegan food and so on and so forth so
nobody quite knows what to expect nobody
knows what the finish line is or nobody
horse knows where the goal posts are and
you know as shallow and stupid as it may
be one of the lessons I'm trying to put
in here is guys if you're vegan beyond
still go to an Olive Garden or even cook
is some successful mainstream restaurant
and to really break it down what are the
expectations that customers are bringing
to your restaurant which can include
even just the fact of getting a complete
meal because a lot of the time you've
got to offer enough protein you've got
to offer enough greens you've got to
offer enough of it next there yeah you
know and if it's about social space
you've got to offer enough social space
there are all these different yes and
you mentioned earlier in this video that
you know none of these places seem to be
fit for bringing your kids so I mean if
you're yes marketing hipsters you know
how much money are you actually going to
make right right right or are you are
you just feeding hipsters
are you just feeding people who are so
wealthy that they don't know the
difference between $6 for a chocolate
cake and $12 for one serving not for
okay for one little cup of chocolate
cake because that exists there are
people that wealthy and there are you
know there are hipsters there are vegan
hipsters will come and hang out but yeah
it made me wonder I said you won't point
I wonder when we're gonna see the first
vegan restaurant with a children's play
area like a McDonald's play area first
of all there are all these other
categories you know are you actually
making a place where these other people
can get fed yeah like I just remember
sorry I don't like I just remember at
the lunchroom we sat next a person set
next to us a woman with two kids and I
just saw her kind of struggling with the
seating and we're trying to feed yes
right like you know these dinners like a
plain sausage available on the kids menu
vegan sausage of course but yeah just
seeing that I just kind of was like oh
this is not good friendly you know who's
gonna do the vegan happy meal many I
know it's a question you know yeah so
there there are a lot of challenges out
there but I mean probably the fatal flaw
here what's really amateurish is that
most of these dishes are beginning from
a concept you know that's always a sign
of an amateur oh I'm gonna take I'm
gonna take cauliflower and make it taste
like buffalo chicken wings okay but
you're not thinking about from the
customers perspective I'm here I want to
get a full meal and I wanted to cost
less than $30 you know yeah you know
you're not looking at the other the
other the phase of the process you just
got this concept and it's a stunt oh wow
this this tastes almost like real me
this tastes almost like that okay fine
well the novelty has worn off in terms
of what's really gonna be durable what's
really and nutritious right right right
these the other questions going in ok
guys I'm on patreon just Google my name
and find I can give you the link below
whatever if you guys want to talk to me
if you want to carry this conversation
forward we do live streaming we do you
too we do it all hit me up